Okay, and so we are now recording with Professor Robert Gardner.
Let's just begin by asking this question.
What do you think when you hear the president of a New York university, say in Florida, who says his goal is to have a library no larger than a telephone booth?
Well, I think it's a rhetorical gimmick, frankly.
I can see what he's driving at, at least I think I can see what he's driving at, meaning an attempt to save shelf space, to compress knowledge in a way that would make it acceptable to all kinds of people, and to do without the conventional products.
So I think I see what he's driving at, and no doubt he feels that this is some kind of technological answer to
problems of university budgets.
Libraries are extremely expensive.
And I've been amazed to find that in my own university, Princeton, the budget of the computer technology division now is greater than that of the whole library.
Really?
Whereas 10 years ago or 15 years ago, the computer division didn't exist.
So I think that's the direction in which that metaphor is aimed.
But has Princeton, pardon me for interrupting, but has Princeton cut back on the acquisitions of printed books?
No, it hasn't.
I've served for a while as head of the faculty library committee and argued strongly that if the computer, it's called computer and information technology here, if that's going to expand great,
It's good for all of this, but not at the expense of acquisitions.
So we have some policy decisions made on that, but the university simply had to find the funds.
But it is true that in general acquisitions budgets are under siege and have been squeezed and reduced and so on.
But I haven't answered your question yet, and my main reaction would be to deplore that idea.
It seems to me that
the codex is one of the great inventions of all time, even though we don't know exactly who invented it or exactly when it was invented.
But it is clear that the book as we know it, pretty much as we know it, came into existence sometime, let us say, in the third or fourth century AD.
That is to say, we had a book composed of the
gatherings or pages stitched together so that one could leaf through it, the notion of leafing, meaning as leafing, letting the eye run across pages with the page itself as a unit, that machine, I think, is irreplaceable and will never be replaced.
I shouldn't prophesy because that is the case.
And that the notion that you're going to read everything
from another sort of machine, namely a computer, is misplaced.
It's to misunderstand the nature of reading, the nature of books, the nature of book culture.
I don't really feel that...
CD-ROMs, which themselves apparently are now beginning to go out and become extinct, that CD-ROMs or online texts are going to replace the book.
It seems to me they're going to supplement it.
So, in short, I think that that metaphor, if I've understood it right, conveys a basic misunderstanding.
There was a new university that did open out in Monterey, as you know, and in fact they had no plans for a library.
And then, of course, when that story hit the press, they put a few books in there.
I just did a search the other day.
After six years in business, this is California State University of Monterey,
They still only have 35,000 books after six years, and they were purchased for them by a professional collection developer.
How do they teach?
Well, they have students on campus.
They have 2,500 students, and everything is assigned via Internet.
And if you absolutely can't get it electronically, then they will try and facilitate an interlibrary loan.
You know, it is a trend, regrettably, that you do see in some segments institutional areas.
I know at Princeton when I was down there last summer, I saw something in the library that indicates that your university logs more books per student and faculty, I guess, than any other institution.
than any other institution in the United States that you could determine.
Of course, Harvard allows open stacks.
So I don't think they could... We do, too.
So that is quite an amazing statistic on how elemental books are actually handling the goods is at Princeton.
And I forget the statistic.
I wrote it down, but it is an amazing statistic.
How many books did you say are at the California State?
I just checked it on the Internet the other day, and as of February of this year, it's 38,000.
For how many students?
I believe it's 2,500 right now.
And I did an interview with several people out there, and they will be in a chapter.
I'm having separate chapters, by the way, on institutional libraries, national libraries, and public libraries.
I like to do these things through narrative.
For instance, my public library section will be the San Francisco Public Library.
I spent a week out there.
two years ago right after that whole matter broke about their sending 200,000 books off to the landfill, and without even recording the titles.
How do you respond to something like that, for instance, when you hear that not only were the books disposed of, but they didn't even take the time to record the titles that were part of their collection?
Well, I mean, I was appalled when I read the story.
So you have the...
the first emotion of indignation and surprise, and then you sit back and try to understand what they are doing or were doing.
Now, it's true that there are technical problems of library management.
It's true that books get worn out and need to be replaced.
So the first impulse is to say, well, there are some rational people who are dealing with very real problems, and somehow it took this unfortunate turn.
But I think the third stage is that perhaps they thought that they could simply switch to some kind of online collecting and do without the codex.
Certainly in the case that you mentioned in Monterey, that must have been the inspiration.
Oh, that was definitely the inspiration.
And you know, in the case of the new...
library in France, the so-called Bibliothèque Nationale.
Which I'm focusing on in my chapter, by the way.
Yeah.
Well, I'm glad to hear that.
But the original idea was to create a totally electronic library that would be one for the 21st century and would replace the old one.
The old one would be left as a kind of monument to antiquated scholarship or whatever, and a new one would serve the new century.
That, however, as you know, didn't work, and the whole library in Paris is in a terrible mess right now.
So what is lost in the attempt to, however benighted, but the attempt to replace the Codex with online books?
I think a lot of things are lost.
To begin with, one,
that may seem, in a way, the strangest.
It's the actual tactile sensation of reading.
There's a German scholar, I don't know if you've run into his work, called Eric Schoen, who did a book about, it's called Der Verluste Simlichkeit.
It's a kind of strange title, The Loss of Sensuality Concerning Reading.
And he studied the way, over time, people have held books, the way their body has come into contact with books.
That sounds wonderful.
Is there an English edition of that?
No.
It's a little bit extravagant, but his argument is not really silly.
He uses iconographic evidence to show that, for example...
What we take as a standard posture for reading books, you put it on the table in front of you and you maybe lean on one elbow while your eye scans the page, the open flat in front of you, that this position is actually rather recent.
And in the way reading has been depicted in pictures, anyhow, up until something like 1800 or in the early 19th century, people are always holding the book in their hands.
If they're sitting at a table, they might have an elbow on it, but the rest of their forearm is extended off of the table, and the hand is holding the book.
That is, you have contact with the page.
And, of course, the page itself is made out of rag paper, and the whole sensation of touching the page, as you know, is from before the development of industrialized
industrially produced paper is quite a different sensation.
So I'm now veering off into making a trivial side of things.
No, I love these things, actually.
But one of the losses in computerized reading, and I'm an advocate of computerized production, so I don't think I'm simply a sentimentalist on this score, but one of the losses...
is the sense of contact with the book, the ability to leaf through it, to turn pages back and forth, to thumb books, to let your eye wander with a kind of luxurious freedom across this landscape that is printed on the page in front of you.
Now, you could say that you could do that with computers, but scrolling up and scrolling down
is not at all the same sensation.
And the little dots on the screen, of course, are quite different from the ink embedded, actually embedded in the paper.
You could say that scrolling up and scrolling down is a reversion to the pre-codex kind of book in which books were unrolled to be read.
And the act of reading
made the page as a unit possible, or made legally possible.
But then we're reverting to an earlier stage, curiously, rather than advancing to something that is making the act of reading a more open-ended and freer process.
So that's an example of one loss.
The second example, maybe a little less romantic,
has to do with scholarship itself.
So many things are conveyed by the physical quality of a book.
The actual meaning of the text, it seems to me, depends upon the way the text is vetted on pages and organized in sheets, leaves, running heads, indexes sometimes, footnotes, certainly lots of front matter.
You get yourself oriented, it seems to me as a reader, by the way you approach a book, open it, take it in through all of your senses, and then begin to use it.
I don't think many people simply read from one line to the other in a mechanical fashion.
literary scholars called Paratext.
I was just about to ask if you have Paratext as your name book.
And, of course, you yourself have been through these issues, so this is no news to you.
But I think that maybe whoever is preaching a library-less university
doesn't understand the way books work to communicate information, and not just information, but knowledge.
And one of the side aspects of this, if you're interested in cultural history, and books as an element of cultural history, of course, you need a book itself, but modern replicas won't do the job.
And libraries, when they have this notion of replicas, that you take
destroy one copy and substitute a duplicate for it.
But in strict bibliographical terms, there is no such thing as duplicate.
Each copy is actually unique in some way.
And if you're beginning to destroy older books, this veers off into vandalism.
So I think that a lot of librarians faced with severe problems of preservation
thought that they could microfilm everything and now think they could digitize everything.
And this is based on, I believe, a misunderstanding about the importance of the book as a physical object.
So I would argue microfilm, yes, but digitize certainly, but don't throw away the original because with the idea that you've got
If I were to tell you a story, I went up to Cornell University.
I'm focusing on Cornell and Harvard as two extremes in the Ivy League, which is pretty interesting.
I'm doing a little feature on there, the Harvard model of off-site storage.
I describe it as a valley of the kings for books, where they can go into deep sleep.
But at Cornell, where they also have off-site storage and an apple orchard, a former apple orchard, but they are pioneering this whole concept of digitizing as a form of preservation.
And primarily, of course, with books that are out of copyright.
public domain, but once you've guillotined these things, and once you've digitized them, the artifact goes off to the landfill.
And in particular, while I was there, this is just coincidental, they were scanning, this was the outgoing copies of the outgoing correspondence, not in his hand, but some sort of pressure carbons of Ezra Cornell, the namesake of the university,
They were digitizing these things, and then they had determined that the artifact wasn't important.
It was strictly the content, and the artifact was going to be disposed of.
Were these manuscript letters of Cornell?
Not in his hand, but I forget what you call it, but the person who wrote them.
No, they were not in Ezra Cornell's hand, but they were dictated by him.
And, you know, 99% of them probably were thanks to the dry cleaners or whatever, but they were safe.
That can be important.
But I think absolutely.
And there were seven volumes of them.
And we're not talking about a great deal of space, but I think that, and I was up in the scanning room where they were doing this and the young man who was,
fiddling with it on the machine, saying, look, I can take out these spots, this discoloration.
And he was actually changing the artifact, in my view.
I mean, even though there has been everything that you're seeing is a chemical change,
And certainly it wasn't this way when it was written.
You are tinkering with an artifact.
And the intention was... In fact, I had them Xerox a copy of this.
I couldn't believe what I was hearing.
It's amazing, isn't it?
It is amazing, isn't it?
That you would actually throw away the artifact.
Well, there was something of a...
plus a scandal created about the New York Public Library.
That's my next question for you because it does go into this whole concept of preservation at the New York Public Library.
The idea here was that microfilming is preservation because we're preserving the content.
It's not the artifact that matters.
It's the content.
And I wonder what your reaction to that is.
Well, apparently...
And you probably have looked up the history of this.
There was a decision made sometime, I believe, in the 1970s.
Exactly.
And I forget the name of the woman who was setting some kind of policy at the national level.
Not, of course, with the power to enforce it, but it was to be a model policy of preservation by saving content and guillotining and throwing away the originals.
That policy...
which spread... I used to know her name and... I don't know her name, I'm sorry.
But you may have that information.
In any case, this... Was she in Columbia?
I can find it easily enough.
Remember, I did make a note of it.
If it's policy, I'll find it.
Well, yes, I think there was some council's libraries...
where this policy was adopted as a kind of model guideline for librarians' concern with preservation.
And the basic idea was the paper's disintegrating so fast, all we can do is save the content, we must do it as rapidly as we can, and that means discarding the original.
Now that, to me, is the vandalism.
Maybe it was done with the highest and noblest of intentions, but of course to destroy the originals is to wipe out an important artifact of our civilization, print culture.
And as a consequence of this sort of policy, which was apparently spread everywhere throughout the world of research libraries,
A lot of microfilming was done, and to be done cheaply, you have to guillotine the spine of the book.
Once the spine was guillotined, then the contents were... No one wanted to rebind them.
That could be done, but that also cost money, and so into the dustbin they went.
Now, this caused a scandal at the New York Public Library.
I should explain, I'm a trustee of the New York Public Library.
And as soon as the president, current president, Paul Leclerc, heard about this, he suspended that operation.
He then appointed a committee to look into it.
The committee reported to the trustees, and the trustees voted to abandon that policy.
We have also adopted our own guidelines, which we hope will serve as a model for the rest of the library world.
which are very strict about any kind of abandoned deaccessioning, as it's called, of books.
I'll give Paul a call.
Are these published guidelines?
They are not yet published.
We voted on them two meetings ago, so this is brand new.
recommended that we make what he called a 180-degree turn in policy about conservation, and that meant saving the originals.
That's great.
Now, of course, it's a complicated issue, and when you look into the complications, you have to leave a little bit of loophole for exceptional circumstances.
And...
I don't think there are... Actually, to describe the exceptions as loopholes is a bit misleading.
But there are some cases, very remote and unexpected cases, where a book might be thrown away after it was digitized.
But we've written the guidelines.
That will never happen.
I'll give a call.
That will be very useful to me because I am going to include that little, not any great length, but it was quite a thing.
That was the Michael Zinman piece in the New Yorker.
Well, the point is that I think it's worthwhile discussing that piece, but you certainly should indicate that the library has totally reversed that policy and is hoping that its new policy will set a guideline in preservation.
But it's an example of an attitude that was quite pervasive throughout the whole library profession at a point.
There was a wonderful piece that you wrote for the Grolier Club.
I have a book right here, Books and Prints, Past and Future.
And this kind of goes back almost to the tactile sense of reading that you were talking about.
But you say the where of reading is more important than you might think.
because by placing the reader in his setting, one can begin to approach his experience of the world.
Are we talking here about libraries or studies?
What exactly are we talking about here when we talk about the where of reading?
Well, I think the where is going to vary, and that's part of the empirical task facing the book history.
So, of course, in some cases, it's the Greek reading room of the New York Public Library, and in other cases, it's behind a haystack or in a privy, or, you know, there are just endless settings.
But that doesn't mean that it, because it's so complex that it can't be studied.
So I think there were more or less standards
sites in which reading took place at different times in the past, and that if one could recover the general tendency of reading, you know, when was it done in groups, and when did it begin to be done by isolated individuals?
When was it done largely aloud, and when did it begin to be done silently?
When was it done with a book on the table, as I was mentioning?
When did people begin to take walks with books in their pockets and pull them out of their pockets in order to read passages by the sunset or in a forest or whatever?
These things tell you a lot about not just what people were reading, but as I think I said, the mental world, the general...
climate or framework, mental framework in which people did the reading.
And of course, part of the setting is the book itself.
So when you have books in small formats that can be taken out of your pocket, that lends itself to a more intimate kind of reading.
This matters terribly, I think, for the experience of literature, which is at the heart of our culture.
So you
To hold a book in your hand, you've probably held some of these books in tiny format.
I even have one.
In the 17th century, they would use books in a sort of moderate-sized format, actually octavos.
They would cut out the pages in the middle, and they could then sometimes, and these would be prayer books typically, and then they would put tiny little libertine tracts
inside the hole that they had made by, if you see it, I mean, by scooping out the pages so you could take them into church and you could read some irreligious literature during the liturgy.
It's, you know, the kind of extreme experience of a liberty that is a free thinker, a reader in the 17th and 18th centuries.
Well, that kind of thing tells you an enormous amount about the mental activity involved in reading.
And it tells you something that you can't know simply by contemplating the content.
You describe yourself as an archival historian, which I think is quite a wonderful description.
And I read that in one span of 11 summers and one winter, you read 50,000 letters.
And this Société Typograph, my French is terrible, the STN.
And then elsewhere, you make a comment about that you will find that book historians often begin by stumbling on discoveries in archives.
I think you could just give me a brief comment on the countless hours that you spent in this one archive, and maybe share with me the experience of stumbling, of making discoveries in an archive, knowing that you have something that really no scholar has ever laid eyes on before, in the sense that you've really come across something that's really important.
Yes, I'd be glad to.
And it does connect with the history of books because these were the archives of a publisher.
And that's what got me into doing the history of books in general.
But I didn't know I was headed in that direction.
And I came upon this archive in the following manner.
It was 1916.
In late 1963, I saw a footnote in a fairly obscure work which suggested that there were some manuscript letters of a key leader of the French Revolution in this town, Neuchâtel, Switzerland.
The man interested me because he was the kind of hanger-on of Jefferson's circle in Paris on the eve of the Revolution.
He was the founder of a club called the Gallo-American Society.
It was a club of Frenchmen who were just bedazzled by the notion of republicanism, this new republican culture that just emerged on the other side of the ocean.
So these people met once a week and discussed everything having to do with America.
This was one of the main persons there, and I thought that was my subject.
So I wrote, I thought, you know, it costs the price of a stamp, and I wrote to this library in this quite small town in French-speaking Switzerland, saying, do you have, it looks as though you might have some letters by this man.
His name is Brissot, B-R-I-S-S-O-T, Jacques-Pierre Brissot.
Could that possibly be true?
And the librarian goes back saying, well, yes, we have 119 letters, and here is a photocopy of one of them.
And it was a fabulous letter.
He more or less told the story of his life to his publisher as a way of not paying a bill for a book that he had printed.
He'd just been released from the Bastille, and he couldn't pay his bill, so he was in a terrible state.
to explain things.
He gave a kind of mini-autobiography.
Well, I thought, this is fabulous.
It's an extraordinary thing to find 119 unpublished letters by one of, say, a dozen most important leaders of the French Revolution.
Amazing.
I'd better hustle off to Neuchâtel, which I did.
It took me a while to do that because I veered off into journalism as a reporter for the New York Times, but
I got over that.
I found myself sitting in this library, in this tiny library, actually, really like a school reading room, very beautiful, but full of school kids doing their homework, and calling for these 119 letters.
There they were, along with the replies that had been copied into a ledger.
And as I read through them, I discovered that
The real interesting subject was not so much the life of this man as the world of books, because his life led into that world.
It was a path through it.
You could follow how he wrote his text, basically sent them in.
He's in France.
This is one of dozens and dozens of publishing houses.
outside of France, that circled France like a great arc around its northeast borders.
It's what I call a fertile crescent of publishing houses.
But because of the censorship and the book police in France, so basically any modern book of any interest is published outside the country and then smuggled in and sold through an elaborate underground.
But for the first time, by reading his letters, you could see how this underground functioned.
I mean, how the books were printed, how much it cost to print them, and what routes they followed to get into France, and where they're stocked in various entrepots, and so on, until they reach readers.
So I actually started writing a life of this guy.
In fact, I wrote 500 pages.
And then I stopped, and I said, wait a minute.
You've got another...
a couple of years research to go if you're going to complete the biography but far more important is to try to develop a history of the book and so i dropped the biography and it's sitting in a drawer at home uh that i guess that was in 1916
Can I just interject, this archive is basically shaping your life's work, it seems to me.
Yes, that's right.
Now I've just turned 60, and I'm appalled with the thought, in a way.
But I dropped the biography, and I went back, and I decided that I would try to recreate the whole world of book culture through these manuscripts.
unendingly rich.
Just on the strength of this trip to this archive?
Yes.
Unbelievable.
It's wonderful.
Anyone who would begin reading through these dossiers, I can describe the process.
Here I am reading his letters.
He's trying to, for example, arrange for the smuggling of his books into France.
One of the steps in the smuggling is...
It's the entrepôt trade, the warehousing of books in Versailles, under the nose of the king himself.
It turns out that Versailles was the great warehouse of illegal books for Paris.
And there are reasons for this, but I was amazed to find this out.
You talk about sweet irony.
And then, so he says, you know, the book should be stored with Madame Lanoune.
How do we spell?
L-A and then capital N-O-U-E.
Okay.
So I said to myself, well, who is this Madame Lanoue?
And she turned out to be one of the great warehouses, but a woman in Versailles.
Well, I just looked up her dossier because it was there among these 50,000 letters.
And she turned out to be a very kind of garrulous, wholesome old woman who could barely spell...
all her letters and is fleecing the producers and playing both sides of the trade, maybe spying for the police secretly.
I mean, there was a whole underworld of activity involving this very obscure woman.
And she turned out to be one of hundreds of people all along the transmission circuits.
So I was finding letters like that that made me think that
The real task for me was to try to reconstruct the entire world, the whole circuit that led from author to publisher to printer to wagoner to entrepot dealer to bookseller to reader, and then back to author again.
But did you realize that you were embarking on a career move at this particular point?
No, I didn't.
I thought, well, I'll just do a study of this and then I'll get on to the French Revolution.
Having done that, maybe I can explain the 19th century and the tragedies of the 20th century.
Wow.
That's in which one?
I decided I would just read my way through these archives.
And was it pretty fresh?
I mean, was it...
Had it been waiting for you all these years?
Had it been tapped by anyone else, to your knowledge?
Well, it had not been tapped because for all of this time it was sitting in an attic of the descendants of this particular publishing firm.
And then they began to fall on hard times and to sell off a few of the letters by famous writers like Voltaire.
The town fathers heard about this, and they, in a very light move, took up a collection and bought the archives from the family.
And this would have been about when, sir?
I ought to know exactly.
Let us say the late 1940s.
Okay.
But fairly recently.
Yes.
Maybe in the 1950s.
So these had never been really studied prior to... Never been studied at all.
And then a retired chemist...
as a kind of hobby, cataloging.
And he was one of these very scrupulous, careful Swiss types who produced a most wonderful catalogue.
What's his name, please?
His name is, his first name is Jean, J-E-A-N.
And his last name is Jean-Pretre, J-E-A-N.
T-R-E with a circumflex accent.
T-R-E.
He must be kind of a hero for you.
For me, he's, you know, I should spin a prayer wheel in his honor every day because he did such a beautiful job.
I can't tell you how grateful I am to him.
I know his handwriting better than my own because he wrote the...
in front of every dossier.
He would write on the top of the dossier the names of the correspondence and the dates, the extreme dates of the letters, and he wrote the catalog of the works themselves.
He even produced a geographical catalog so that you can look up any city in France and find out who corresponded with this publisher in that city.
And their business was so extensive that they
had correspondence in all the cities and most of the large-sized towns in the kingdom.
So I began reading city by city instead of... I mean, how do you read 50,000?
Wow.
Amazing.
I would do it place by place.
Have you read them all?
I have read them all now, yeah.
A lot of them deal with places outside of France, but I read those too because I originally thought I would do all of Europe and all...
of literature in the French language.
This cataloger certainly could have... Now, there is a person who could have used a computer in terms of cross-referencing and all this other stuff.
A database for him would have been just fantastic.
But he did this without it, which is even more remarkable, I guess.
He took years and years, and he enjoyed it.
He wrote a little article himself about a very good one in the local...
in a local magazine about this archive, which is very helpful.
And that was, I never knew about the article, so you could say he was the first one to have published anything on it.
And a local, a local, as they call him, that is, he's actually a college, he's not dead, but he was a professor at the local university.
did a book of essays that drew on some of these as well.
But basically, this was 50,000 virgin letters that no one had seen since then in the 18th century.
And, you know, they included, for example, a letter by Marat, the great revolutionary, which turned out to be the second oldest letter in captivity, so to speak, by him.
That is the second letter in the order of chronology that we know Marat wrote.
And we spell his name how?
M-A-R-A-T.
Exactly the way it sounds.
Okay.
You know, he's one of the real boogeymen of the French Revolution.
Right.
The most extravagant of the Revolution.
And I was amazed to find this letter there.
It's the kind of thing that...
Well, you know, just pure gold for a historian, and it was one of the first things I published.
And to even understand the letter, you had to reconstruct its context.
So there are nuggets of gold scattered there, but more important, I think, than the individual items is the whole thing, the entire landscape, which you can reconstruct out of this archive.
To do it right, however, you need to...
to complement it with all the other material available in France.
And there's a lot of that, especially in Paris.
So I spent a couple of years reading in the major Parisian collections in the Bibliothèque Nationale, where the same people appear.
The people appear usually from the perspective of the state, because these are state papers.
police spies have been trailing them or they've been arrested or they're denounced in a memo by someone or they go bankrupt and then they appear in yet another collection of archives bankruptcy papers so that you can see the same individual from two or three or more sources and therefore you have a kind of multi-dimensional picture of that person so what I've tried to do is to take
interesting and representative individuals, smugglers, wagoners, peddlers, as well as the small and large and medium-sized booksellers, other publishers, authors, and to have a series of portraits that I think will be a kind of human comedy showing exactly the tenor of life and the actual individuals involved in the world of books.
while at the same time in a more systematic way trying to analyze and evoke the, how should I put it, the system of relations that held that world together, things involving economics and credit, all sorts of notions peculiar to the book trade at the time,
Actually, I haven't written that book yet.
I've written several studies, but believe it or not, I have one more to write, and that's going to be an electronic book.
Really?
No kidding.
So what I'm going to do, and it's now my current project, I've done other things that did not involve history books.
Yeah, but what prompted you to decide to agree to do that?
Well...
Why write an electronic book?
Well, I'll tell you.
I'm currently president of the American Historical Association, and it's a one-year term.
I decided that I could do one new thing, make one major initiative of my own while trying to get on with the business as usual, and that, I decided, would be a program for the electronic publishing of dissertations.
Which Dr. Billington, by the way, told me is what he really sees as one of the great things that electronics can do, is to do the dissertations.
That's right.
I think he's right.
And, of course, there are now dissertations just being put on the web, which is fine.
But the idea of this is to try to set quality standards with
peer group refereeing and editing.
In other words, to transform a raw dissertation, because I believe a dissertation is not yet a book, it's a scholarly exercise that is potentially a book, to transform this into a genuine book, the way monographs have traditionally been, but to publish it electronically.
And the reason for that, I think, is that the monograph is really as endangered as the phrase goes these days.
It's almost impossible to publish monographs in certain fields.
And so I appointed a committee, and it worked very hard to determine exactly the extent of the problem.
But there's a series of interlinking problems.
which I discussed actually in an article in New York.
I have it here.
Well, that describes the background.
800 copies 20 years ago, 400 copies now.
That pretty much says it.
Yeah.
And 400 is optimistic.
Right.
So you've got a crisis in the price of periodicals, in library budgets, in university presses, and in scholarly careers.
Now, the point of this program is
now just launched by the American Historical Association with the Grant and the Mellon Foundation, is to take these dissertations that can't be published as monographs because the monograph in that field isn't viable, to turn them into electronic books and to be published through a special program that we have sponsored, but to make them more, something more than the conventional monograph, to make them a new kind of book,
An e-book, as it's called.
And imposing strict professional standards on it.
This does not, by the way, preclude publication in codex form so that they can come out as paperbacks or whatever.
But at the same time, they will be published electronically.
And I wouldn't preclude that from happening.
I mean, you point out in that New York Review piece, you know, the Star Report was available free.
It was broken on the Internet as a story, and yet it became a bestseller in paper.
Explain that.
The explanation is that people don't want to read a whole book on the Internet.
I mean, on the computer screen.
I don't know a single person who has ever told me that they read a book from beginning to end on a computer screen.
I don't know a person, Bill Gates included, as you point out.
So computers just aren't very good for serious reading on a large scale, for reading a long text.
But they are good for other things, for searching and for putting together and making
links or connections between disparate bits of information.
Now, anyhow, here's this program of the AHA.
What I hope that will happen is that we will produce not only monographs of a very high quality.
The AHA?
Yes.
Okay.
The publisher is actually going to be the Columbia University Press.
Oh, that's been published.
That's been written about Columbia.